[docs] "What's new in Svelte" July newsletter (#6459)
sveltejs/svelte: site/content/blog/2021-07-01-whats-new-in-svelte-july-2021.md

---
title: What's new in Svelte: July 2021
description: Keeping cool with fixes, TypeScript tooling and tonnes of new features
author: Daniel Sandoval
authorURL: https://desandoval.net
---

As the northern hemisphere heats up, Svelte has stayed cool with lots of performance and bug fixes, better TypeScript support, and lots of new components & tools from around the ecosystem. Let's take a peek 👀

## New in SvelteKit
- `adapter-node` now precompresses assets using gzip & brotli ([#1693](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/1693))

> - Support for TypeScript transpilation has been added to the svelte package tooling ([#1633](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/1633))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support for TypeScript transpilation has been added to the `svelte-kit package` tooling ([#1633](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/1633))
```

Reviewer 2: Did you mean to put the second tickmark after `-kit` instead of after `package`?

Reviewer: No. The command is `svelte-kit package`

> 

Reviewer: - Improved caching defaults in `adapter-node` ([#1416](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/1416))
- Allow configuring Rollup output options ([#1572](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/1572))
- Fixed usage of SSL with HMR ([#1517](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/pull/1517))

## Features & bug fixes from around svelte/*
- [Svelte 3.38.3](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#3383) (released June 22) includes a bunch performance and bug fixes - including hydration optimizations, `this` preservation in bubbled events, and more!

> - The latest language tools releases added support for prop renaming from outside of a component, postcss syntax grammar, `.d.ts` file outputs in `svelte2tsx` and better support for TypeScript features across the board!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The latest language tools releases added support for prop renaming from outside of a component, PostCSS syntax grammar, and a `.d.ts` output target in `svelte2tsx` which can be used to create type definitions from Svelte files. Additionally, some long-awaited experimental features for enhanced TypeScript support were added, including explicitly typing all possible component events or slots, and using generics. Have a look at [the RFC](https://github.com/sveltejs/rfcs/pull/38) for more details and leave feedback in [this issue](https://github.com/sveltejs/language-tools/issues/442) if you are using it.
```

- `svelte-scroller` got some quality-of-life fixes in 2.0.7 - fixing an initial width bug and updating its `index` more conservatively

---

## Community Showcase

> 

Reviewer: [The sveltejs/community repository](https://github.com/sveltejs/community) was archived in favor of [the Svelte Society site](https://sveltesociety.dev/). The Svelte Society website is currently in the process of being [rewritten in SvelteKit](https://github.com/svelte-society/sveltesociety-2021). See [the list of open issues](https://github.com/svelte-society/sveltesociety-2021/issues) if you'd like to contribute.

As part of archiving the old `sveltejs/community` repo, we decided that the list of company logos displayed on [the Svelte homepage](https://svelte.dev/) had become to large to display in a reasonable fashion and dramatically reduced the number of logos displayed to only the most prominent companies. If you work at a well-known company, [please feel free to send a PR](https://github.com/sveltejs/svelte/blob/master/site/src/routes/_components/WhosUsingSvelte.js) to add your company's logo.

Reviewer 4: Tangent: I really want to chase down some of those companies...

**Apps & Sites**
- [SvelteThemes](https://sveltethemes.dev/) is a curated list of Svelte themes and templates built using svelte, sveltekit, elderjs, routify etc.
- [Beatbump](https://github.com/snuffyDev/Beatbump) is an alternative frontend for YouTube Music created using Svelte/SvelteKit.
- [Sveltuir](https://github.com/webspaceadam/sveltuir) is an app help you memorize the guitar fretboard

> **Educational Content**

Reviewer 5: I wrote a [guest post for CSS-Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/using-custom-elements-in-svelte/) on Svelte and custom elements that would be nice to feature.

Possibly: 
- [Using Custom Elements in Svelte](https://css-tricks.com/using-custom-elements-in-svelte/) shows some of the quirks to look out for when using custom elements in a Svelte site.

- [Vue vs Svelte: Comparing Framework Internals](https://www.vuemastery.com/blog/vue-vs-svelte-comparing-framework-internals/) dives deep into the differences between Vue and Svelte from the inside out
- [Setting up a development environment for SvelteKit with Docker and Docker Compose](https://jenyus.web.app/blog/2021-05-30-setting-up-a-development-environment-for-sveltekit-with-docker-and-compose) walks through how to use Docker to create reusable development environments, no matter what kind of device you run your code on
- Scalable Scripts released three videos this month documenting how to deploy dockerized Svelte Apps to [AWS](https://youtu.be/VOs2Od5jYOc), [Azure](https://youtu.be/gdg4ne_uDm8) and [Google Cloud](https://youtu.be/_-uBb61Tikw)
- [Render Katex with Svelte from zero to hero](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=euowJs9CblA) demonstrates how to implement Katex in a Svelte project

**Libraries, Tools & Components**
- [svelte-pipeline](https://github.com/novacbn/svelte-pipeline) provides custom Javascript contexts and the Svelte Compiler as Svelte Stores, for REPLs, Editors, etc.

> - [svelterial](https://svelterialjs.github.io/svelterial/) is a Material Design component library for Svelte

Reviewer 6: Can you please remove svelterial, I want to wait until is it complete.

Author: Will do :)
